# FastAPI Delivery Fee Estimator
This project is a backend HTTP API developed using Python and FastAPI framework. It efficiently calculates delivery fees by considering multiple factors such as cart value, delivery distance, number of items, and order time. Designed to optimize the checkout process, the API provides quick and accurate cost assessments to enhance user experience in e-commerce platforms.

**Features:**
- **Dynamic Fee Calculation:** Adjusts delivery costs in real-time based on user cart details and delivery parameters.
- **Scalable Architecture:** Built to efficiently handle high volumes of requests with minimal latency.
- **User-Centric Design:** Focuses on providing a seamless integration for e-commerce platforms looking to improve their customer checkout experience.

**Technical Stack:**
- **Python 3.8:** For robust back-end logic.
- **FastAPI:** Chosen for its speed and ease of use in building APIs with automatic interactive documentation.
- **Pytest:** Used for writing comprehensive tests ensuring the API's reliability and performance.

## Setup Instructions
### Prerequisites
- Python 3.8 or higher
- pip (Python package installer)
### Installation
1. Download this project or repository to your local machine.
2. Navigate to the project directory in your terminal:
   ```
   cd path/to/project-directory
   ```
   Replace **`` `path/to/project-directory` ``** with the actual path of the project's directory on your machine.
   
3. Create and activate a virtual environment:
   - For Windows:
     ```
     python -m venv venv
     venv\Scripts\activate
     ```
   - For macOS/Linux:
     ```
     python -m venv venv
     source venv/bin/activate
     ```
4. (Optional) Check if Anaconda is active and deactivate it. (Ensure that only **(venv)** appears in the terminal prompt):
   ```
   conda deactivate
   ```
   This ensures that there are no conflicts between the Anaconda environment and this project's virtual environment. <br /> <br />
5. Install the required dependencies:
   ```
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```
## Running the Application
To run the application, use the following command in the terminal:
```
uvicorn main:app --reload
```
This will start the FastAPI server, and the application will be accessible at
`http://127.0.0.1:8000`.
## Project Structure
- `main.py`: The entry point of the application.
- `/models`: Contains Pydantic models for structuring request and response data.
- `/services`: Houses the business logic for delivery fee calculation.
- `/routes`: Defines the API endpoints (only a single POST endpoint is defined).
- `/tests`: Includes unit and integration tests for the application.
- `requirements.txt`: Lists all the necessary Python dependencies.
## API Documentation
The API documentation, auto-generated by FastAPI, can be accessed at [**http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs**](http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs) once the server is running. It is interactive and allows you to test API endpoints directly from your browser.
## Testing
To run the tests and ensure the application functions as expected, execute the following command:
```
pytest
```
For checking test coverage, you can use:
```
coverage run -m pytest
coverage report
```
## Feedback and Suggestions
I welcome feedback and contributions to this project! If you have suggestions for improvements or have identified issues, please feel free to submit an issue or pull request directly on GitHub. For general feedback, you can use the discussions section of this repository.

Your contributions and insights are invaluable and greatly appreciated, as they help enhance the project's quality and functionality. Thank you for your interest and support!
